# Mastering-Data-Analytics-for-Professional
This repository contains all documentations and learning journey towards Mastering Data Analytics

Helpful Links:
- [Research Methodology Course by UniteForSight](http://www.uniteforsight.org/research-methodology/module1)
- [Determine What Statistical Methods to Use for Specific Situations](https://onlinecourses.science.psu.edu/stat500/node/67/)

Free Online Course:
- [edX | Data Analytics | Wolrds Best Free Online Course](https://www.edx.org/course?search_query=data+analytics)
- [Coursera | Data Analytics | Online Course by Top Educators](https://www.coursera.org/courses?query=data%20analytics)

#### `INTRODUCTION TO ANALYTICS`
`Analytics is the practice of using data to help make decisions to meet an organization’s objectives`. Typical objectives include maximizing profit, minimizing cost, reducing financial risk, improving health care and educational outcomes and others that may vary on industry you're involve with. 

#### `TYPES OF DATA ANALYTICS`
- `Descriptive - Description of what has already happened - What happened` Descriptive analysis or statistics does exactly what the name implies they “Describe”, or summarize raw data and make it something that is interpretable by humans. They are analytics that describe the past. The past refers to any point of time that an event has occurred, whether it is one minute ago, or one year ago. Descriptive analytics are useful because they allow us to learn from past behaviors, and understand how they might influence future outcomes. The vast majority of the statistics we use fall into this category. (Think basic arithmetic like sums, averages, percent changes). Usually, the underlying data is a count, or aggregate of a filtered column of data to which basic math is applied. For all practical purposes, there are an infinite number of these statistics. Descriptive statistics are useful to show things like, total stock in inventory, average dollars spent per customer and Year over year change in sales. Common examples of descriptive analytics are reports that provide historical insights regarding the company’s production, financials, operations, sales, finance, inventory and customers. Use Descriptive Analytics when you need to understand at an aggregate level what is going on in your company, and when you want to summarize and describe different aspects of your business.

- `Diagnostic - Exploration of meaningful information - Why did it happen` Diagnostic Analytics is a form of advanced analytics which examines data or content to answer the question “Why did it happen?”, and is characterized by techniques such as drill-down, data discovery, data mining and correlations.
  
- `Predictive - Prediction of future outcome based on historical data - What will happen` Predictive analytics has its roots in the ability to “Predict” what might happen. These analytics are about understanding the future. Predictive analytics provides companies with actionable insights based on data. Predictive analytics provide estimates about the likelihood of a future outcome. It is important to remember that no statistical algorithm can “predict” the future with 100% certainty. Companies use these statistics to forecast what might happen in the future. This is because the foundation of predictive analytics is based on probabilities. These statistics try to take the data that you have, and fill in the missing data with best guesses. They combine historical data found in ERP, CRM, HR and POS systems to identify patterns in the data and apply statistical models and algorithms to capture relationships between various data sets. Companies use Predictive statistics and analytics anytime they want to look into the future. Predictive analytics can be used throughout the organization, from forecasting customer behavior and purchasing patterns to identifying trends in sales activities. They also help forecast demand for inputs from the supply chain, operations and inventory. One common application most people are familiar with is the use of predictive analytics to produce a credit score. These scores are used by financial services to determine the probability of customers making future credit payments on time. Typical business uses include, understanding how sales might close at the end of the year, predicting what items customers will purchase together, or forecasting inventory levels based upon a myriad of variables. Use Predictive Analytics any time you need to know something about the future, or fill in the information that you do not have. I suggest working backwards: `After determining what you want to forecast, think about the variables that might help you predict the variable of interest.`

- `Prescriptive - Recommendations based on predictive model output - What should i do` The relatively new field of prescriptive analytics allows users to “prescribe” a number of different possible actions to and guide them towards a solution. In a nut-shell, these analytics are all about providing advice. Prescriptive analytics attempt to quantify the effect of future decisions in order to advise on possible outcomes before the decisions are actually made. At their best, prescriptive analytics predicts not only what will happen, but also why it will happen providing recommendations regarding actions that will take advantage of the predictions. These analytics go beyond descriptive and predictive analytics by recommending one or more possible courses of action. Essentially they predict multiple futures and allow companies to assess a number of possible outcomes based upon their actions. Prescriptive analytics use a combination of techniques and tools such as business rules, algorithms, machine learning and computational modelling procedures. These techniques are applied against input from many different data sets including historical and transactional data, real-time data feeds, and big data.
Prescriptive analytics are relatively complex to administer, and most companies are not yet using them in their daily course of business. When implemented correctly, they can have a large impact on how businesses make decisions, and on the company’s bottom line. Larger companies are successfully using prescriptive analytics to optimize production, scheduling and inventory in the supply chain to make sure that are delivering the right products at the right time and optimizing the customer experience. Use Prescriptive Analytics anytime you need to provide users with advice on what action to take.
